# Major_Project
This IoT system aims to improve the medical care service to people at potential risk for heart incidents located at remote places by providing a monitoring 
system that helps doctors in the patient's heart signal supervision. Besides, authorized people can supervise patients accessing their ECG via the web.  
Technologies Used: JAVA(J2EE), MYSQL,HTML,CSS
**Problem Statement**
Develop an efficient IoT-based platform for remote real-time cardiac activity monitoring to address the growing need for continuous and non-invasive monitoring of cardiac health in individuals. This platform should enable seamless data collection, analysis, and transmission of vital cardiac parameters, such as heart rate, rhythm, and anomalies, in real-time from remote locations to healthcare providers or caregivers. The solution should prioritize scalability, reliability, security, and user-friendliness while ensuring minimal energy consumption and cost-effectiveness.
**About Project**
In this Project an efficient methodology is presented for real-time monitoring of ECG signals. The method involves fast Fourier transform (FFT) based discrete wavelet transform (DWT) for extracting the features from the heartbeats which involves less computational complexity in terms of additions and multiplications operations for higher order filter lengths. These features extracted are recognized using particle swarm optimization (PSO) tuned twin support vector machines (TSVM) classifier. The TSVM classifier is four times faster than the standard SVM while the PSO technique is employed to gradually tune the classifier parameters to achieve more accuracy. The proposed methodology is implemented on IoT based microcontroller platform and validated on the benchmark Physionet data to classify 16 categories of ECG signals. Once an abnormality is detected, the platform generates a pop-up message as a warning and sends the information to a remote platform allowing hospitals to take preventive measures. The platform reported a higher overall accuracy of 95.68% than the existing studies. Further, such implementation can be utilized as a warning system in both homecare as well as tele-monitoring applications to continuously monitor the cardiac condition of a subject anywhere to the state-of-art heart disease diagnosis.


